 Subject: Cyberpoet's Guide to Virtual Culture - 3.14.94 - p1/5

____________________._____________________________________________________
_._______________________________________________________________________.
_...______________________________________________________________________
_________________...____.. _____ . _______....________.....  . ..  ____.__

     ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
    //                                                                  |
   //                          \\      //       ///////                 |
  //                            \\    //       //                       |
 //                              \\  //       //                        |
///////////// yberpoet's Guide to \\//irtual ///////ulture              |
                                                                        |
A multipart guide to the electronic frontier.                    039414 o

-=- 01.Introduction
------------------------------------------------------

Beyond the hype, behind the glamour, underneath the sea of buzzwords,
icons and flames a new subculture is spreading in this petri dish known as
the Internet. Here science and art - media and mind - combine in a cyborg
frenzy to create this replicant cousin to cyberpunk and hacking. It is a
subculture with no name, few labels, but thousands of common attractors,
which link together before our eyes like digital DNA to create, in the 
helix of the autologue, a new frontier for participants in these wide 
virtual spaces to explore.

Any document that attempts to cover an emerging culture is doomed to be
incomplete. Even more so if the culture has no overt identity (at least
none outside virtual space). But the other side of that coin presents us
with the oportunity to document the ebb and flow, the moments of growth
and defeat, the development of this young culture.

Although young, there is rich history and varied philosophies for this
group to draw on. From cyberpunk, the quest for access to information and
a vision of the future (the cyber) has been exorcised from the
distopic and 'punk'ish views of the monster the media has made of
cyberpunk. From the Hacker ethic, we get the rally cry that "infomation
wants to be free." From the workings of the Internet, we see the desire
for universal access and the pursuit of Jeffersonian Democracy (kapor)
that is manifested itself partially through the anarchy inherent in the
system and partially through the efforts of many net.users.

This document, although significantly different, attempts to pick up where
the FutureCulture FAQ (by andy hawks) left off. It should act as a
starting point for those new to the net, as one avenue to reach a level
of net.literacy, and as a handy reference point for those already
comfortable in this pocket of the net.

It is a road map to the interesting viewpoints, hot dog stands, museums, 
flora and fauna that dots this constantly changing landscape of virtual
space. Explore these sites. Dig in the cyborganic gardens. Report back 
your findings, so that others may follow. And they will.

                     -oO   -=<>=-   Oo-

[Cyberpoet]   Cyber-, having to do with information flow, human and
computer use/combinations, computer mediated communication. -Poet, one who
makes art with words, an artist, a renaissance trait. A cyberpoet is one
who strives to be artful in their use of virtual space. Someone who makes
frequent trips to the edge of technology/culture/society and then reports
back to anyone who will listen. The avant-guard of virtual culture.
Someone who, like a renaissance man, has their eye on the future and their
nose in its knowledge, technologies and politics.

                     -oO   -=<>=-   Oo-

-=- 01.2.Contents       |
-------------------------

Part I

-=- 01.Introduction
        o preface
        o contents -=>what you are reading<=-
        o copyright notices & stuph
        o Lexicon of Virtual Culture
             o The dictionary

Part II

-=- 02.Cultural Signposts
        o Libraries - cyber-repositories of data
        o Museums, galleries, ezines & stuph
        o Organizations - EFF, FAF, CPSR, etc.
        o Gov't - USA and otherwise

Part III

-=- 03.Virtual Hangouts
        o Elists & newsgroups
        o Cafes - virtual pubs and coffeehouses
        o Parks & rec - public spaces and interesting faces

Part IIII

-=- 04.Resources & References
        o Online how-to's
        o Similiar lists
        o Assorted online resources
        o Access points

Part V

-=- 05.Offline Interests
        o Magazines
        o Bibliography

XxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXXxX
x                                                                      x
X                    ***and our newest feature***                      X
x                      KIBBLE: The CGVC Journal                        x
X                                                                      X
x           C     O     N     T     E     N    T     S      !          x       
X                                                                      X
x 1- Editorial             o      Welcome to Kibble the zine           x
X 2- Guest FAQ             o      Clipper News & action.               X
x 3- Ongoing projects      o      Interpedia - Internet Encyclopedia   x 
X 4- Upcoming conferences  o      DEFCON ][ - July 22, 23, 24 - 1994   X
x 5- Letters to the editor o                                           x
X 6- Editorial Policy      o                                           X
x                                                                      x
XxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXXxX


-=- 01.4.Stuph         |
------------------------

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
o  Legalese, copyright notice, some parting          o
o  words.                                            o
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

The contents contained herein are not to be construed as legal advice, nor
is the author/publisher responsible for any damage that might result from
the use of any information or software gathered from using this document.
The author/publisher will make every effort to see that the information is
up to date, but cannot warranty that it is.

This document, it's format, theme and articles are copyright 1993,1994
John Frost [frost@netcom.com], except where the copyright is retained by
the original author. The rights to distribute and reproduce this document
are granted in accord with the Agitprop guidelines founded by Bruce
Sterling. A copy of those guidelines may be found via ftp at ftp.eff.org
ftp/pub/Publications/Bruce_Sterling/README or at EFF's gopher site. Other
uses and non-electronic reproduction of this document must first be
cleared, in writing, with John Frost. Under no circumstance may
money/script/funds be charged for access to this document, beyond the
money charged for general access to the system it is found on. The guide
may not be distributed on any disk/tape/device with a capacity of more
then 80 megs. 

To add information to, or suggest changes in, this document please email
frost@netcom.com with the word CYBERPOET in the subject.

As far as I know this list is archived at mindvox &

ftp//ftp.eff.org//pub/net_info/cyberpoet.gvc
ftp//etext.archive.umich.edu//pub/Zines/Cyberpoet
ftp//vela.oakland.edu//pub/tribe/publications
USENET//alt.cyberspace, alt.cyberpunk, alt.virtual.culture


Please inform me of any other archival so that I may make mention of 
it here. I hear that somebody is marking up an HTML verson too.

     ==========
  ==-------=======
 ==---------=======
==-----------=======      The Lexicon of Virtual Culture
===---------========
====-------=========        Virtual Culture -- >>From A to Z
 ==================
  ================
  ================
     ==========

-=- 01.Lexicon of Virtual Culture
------------------------------------------------------
-=- 01.3.The dictionary   |
---------------------------

Virtual Culture -- >>From A to Z

ADSL (Asynchronous Digital Subscriber Loop) - The transmission method
likely to be used to send movies, tv shows and sports - at the viewers
request - over existing telephone lines right to your television. Look for
this to be available and affordable in the next two years. This is the
main contender to ISDN, the winner will provide the link between 50
channels and 500 channels, 50,000 channels or (hopefully) more.

Agrippa: A Book of the Dead - A collaboration between author William
Gibson, publisher Kevin Begos Jr., and artist Dennis Ashbaugh. This
art-work contains engravings by Ashbaugh which appear or disappear in
light and an on-disk semi-autobiographical poem by William Gibson  which
is unreadable after having been read once.  Agrippa is notable because in
many respects it blurs the lines concerning what art is, and adds fuel to
the fire on issues of property rights and intellectual property.  A
highlight of 1992 was the release of Gibson's poem on to the net.

Artificial Life - man-made systems that exhibit characteristics associated
with the concept of "life".

Artificial Reality - similar to virtual reality, but more interactive,
with the participant being part of, not just experiencing, the artificial
environment.

Barlow, John Perry - A drummer for the Grateful Dead and co-founder of the
EFF. Now a net.denizen who speaks often on virtual culture and cyberspace
sociology and technology.

BBSes - electronic Bulletin Board Systems.  Begun in the late 70's, a form
of virtual community existing in cyberspace where participants (usually
using aliases) may send and receive public and private messages to each
other on any topic imaginable, transfer software (copyrighted and/or
public domain), play on-line games, etc.  There is the "over-ground" BBS
world where aliases are less common and illegal activities are avoided in
discussion, and the computer underground where illegal activities and
discussions are very common, members use aliases, and illegal information
and/or software is exchanged.

Boxing - A variety of electronic devices used to aid in phreaking. The
original was the blue box, used from the mid 60's to the mid 80's, which
allowed long distance phone calls to be made for free. A variety of other
similar instruments accomplishing different tasks have been developed,
some purely comical, some quite practical.

Chaos - Chaos is a state that garners a lot of respect in cyberculture, to
the point of being a techno-pagan religion. Many people are self-described
Chaoticians.

Chaos Theory - A field of science revolving around simplistic equations
involving a large number of variables. Gave rise to fractals, a form of
cyberdelic art. For further info on the subject, James Gleick's "Chaos:
Making a New Science" is suggested.

C0dez Doodz - Essentially a phreaker's version of pirates. People who seek
out telco codes to be used to gain long distance (ld) telephone calls
without paying for them. Scourge of the computer underground.

Communitek - an informational technology that provides the potential for a
community to develop in cyberspace. For example, within the net, IRC and
elists are two communiteks.

Computer Underground - "A group organized in secrecy, hidden behind
aliases, to promote the free exchange of information regarding anything
and everything including, but not limited to: computers, telephones,
radios, chemicals, and ideas." (Thanx to The Butler for this definition)
The mainstay of communication for the computer underground is cyberspace,
more specifically BBSes. The computer underground is composed of hackers,
phreakers, pirates, anarchists, and other cyberpunks.

Cyber- - A prefix taken from cybernetics generally used in popular culture
to mean anything that is technologically oriented.

Cyberculture - Often used in the media to denote aspects of "life as a
cyberpunk." Yet if we are to follow strict meaning, cyberculture is more
accurately defined as an information-based culture.

Cyberdeck - Term originated by William Gibson to refer to a computer used
by deck cowboys that can connect to the matrix.

Cyberdelic - "Cyber-art".  Examples include fractals, computer-generated
pictures and/or music, virtual worlds, etc. (sidebar - fractal pict)

Cybernetics - The study of communication systems in living organisms and
machines, the mathematical analysis of the flow of information.

Cyberpunk - Begun as a literary movement in the 80's, an off-shoot of
normal science fiction. Unique in that it generally occurs in the present
or not so distant future, the characters are often considered "punks"
(social deviants) and technology, (the cyber aspect), is prominent.
"Neuromancer" by William Gibson, published in 1984, is considered by most
to be the "bible" of cyberpunk.  Another prominent author is Bruce
Sterling, editor of another worthy cyberpunk collection, "Mirrorshades".
Other examples of cyberpunk include Max Headroom (TV show) and BladeRunner
(movie). Cyberpunk is special in that it has evolved from a purely
literary movement to a realistic subculture. Many "techno-punks" (i.e.,
hackers) are considered cyberpunks. Other contributing factors to the
cyberpunk subculture include:  virtual reality, hallucinogenic and
nootropic drugs, and industrial and punk music. For an in-depth, detailed
look at cyberpunk fiction and cyberpunk culture, "Storming the Reality
Studio," ed. by Larry McCaffery is suggested.

Cyberspace - "The electronic frontier." A completely virtual environment:
the sum of all BBSes, computer networks, and other virtual communities.
Unique in that it is constantly being changed, exists only virtually, can
be practically infinite in "size", communication occurs instantaneously
world-wide - physical location is completely irrelevant most of the time.
Some include video and telephone transmissions as part of cyberspace.

Cypherpunks - net.folks who have evolved from hacking to encryption and
concern with creating multiple anonymous identities.

Deck Cowboys - Futuristic, some say fantasy, version of a computer hacker
or a modern-day cyberpunk.

Electronic Frontier Foundation - (EFF). Organization founded by Mitch
Kapor (of Lotus fame) and John Perry Barlow (writer and Grateful Dead
songwriter) to establish laws for cyberspace and apply the constitution to
virtual communities. The EFF has recently morphed into a strong lobbying
force in Washington D.C..

Elist (email-lists) - An electronic discussion group that anyone with an
email address can subscribe to. Email addresses for the elist members are
stored on a single computer. When you send email to that machine, it will
automatically bounce your letter to every other subscriber. Thousands of
these elists, covering almost every topic, exist on the Internet for your
reading pleasure and more are materializing weekly.

Ezine - An net version of the small press magazine (known as a zine)
culture. Usually ezines exist only on the net, but more and more
paper-zines are distributing an electronic version as well. (sidebar, some
zines to watch for)

F2F - face to face meeting (also FTF)

Flame - Disagreement (hell, full fledged war sometimes) occurring in
cyberspace. Common on Usenet.

Fleshmeet - a F2F meeting. Often a party of some sort where people who
have met previously on the net get together.

Fractals - Images created using chaos theory. A mish-mash of colors
presented in a pattern that repeats itself many times over.  A popular
type of fractal image is one created using the "Mandlebrot set".  Fractals
are considered cyberdelic art.

Gibson, William - Considered by most to be the "father" of cyberpunk,
along with Bruce Sterling. His works include the infamous "Neuromancer",
"Count Zero", "Mona Lisa Overdrive" (these 3 works are known as the sprawl
series), "The Difference Engine" with which he was co-author with Bruce
Sterling, and "Burning Chrome" a collection of short stories.  A recent
work of his is a poem in "Agrippa: A Book of the Dead".  Gibson says he
will no longer be writing the "classic"  cyberpunk novels he is famous
for.  His latest work is entitled "Virtual Light" is futuristic fiction
was released in August.

Global Village - Famous term coined by Marshall McLuhan, exemplified by
the net.

Gopher - A menu driven service useful for grep'ing info off the net. You
forgot your friend's email address, look here. Need to read the latest
issue of "Voices from the net" (An electronic text based zine or ezine),
look here. Searching for a file to read or software to download, use
Gopher. Over 1200 individual gopher sites exist and the number is growing
weekly.

Grep - search, or scan.

Grok - Word with roots in Shamanism that is akin to gnow. and implies a
thorough and complete holistic understanding. Popularized in Robert A.
Heinlein's _Stranger in a Strange Land_.

Hacker - 60's (1st) generation (orig. MIT):  one who tinkers with
software, electronics, computer hardware, etc.  80's (2nd) WarGames
generation:  one who enters computer systems without permission with
either malicious or non-malicious intent, to gain, alter, or destroy
information (labeled as crackers by the 60's generation).  90's (3rd)
generation:  often called cyberpunks, mostly non-malicious crackers
interested in information for the sake of information, and not hacking for
the sake of the hack - sometimes calling themselves "information
liberators", they have re-adopted more of the original hacker ethic of the
60's that mainly states "all information should be free", "access to
computers should be unlimited and total" and "promote decentralization".
This new, 3rd generation is commonly associated with the computer
underground, despite its mostly non-malicious intent.

Identity Hacking - The use of pseudo-anonymity or false accounts to
put ones self off as another person on the Internet. Not nice.

Infonomics - The idea of an economy based on information, which obviously
holds many different properties from our current state of the world.

Internet - A large and very popular world-wide computer network begun by
the Department of Defense in the 60's that connects educational
institutions, corporations, organizations, and military and government
installations around the globe. Some organizations exist that offer
Internet access to the general public for an hourly,monthly or yearly fee.
Suggested are places like the WELL, MindVox, Nyx (which is free of cost),
Netcom, etc.  Many Internet users partake in reading and contributing to
Usenet, playing MUDs, FTPing text files and programs free of charge at the
various FTP sites, and 'telnet'ing to other Internet sites. Because of its
accessibility at a relatively low cost, size (the largest computer network
in the world), connectivity, and infinite amounts of information, many
network users prefer the Internet to such services as CompuServe (often
called Compu$erve on the Internet) or Prodigy (which is more restricting
in its content). The Internet has something to offer for everyone. There
are many helpful books published about how to use the Internet, some are
available right on-line.  Once you gain access to the Internet, it is
suggested that you read the 'news.announce.newusers' and
'news.newusers.questions' and 'news.answers' newsgroups on Usenet.

IRC - Internet Relay Chat. Realtime communication forums between Internet
users all over the world.

ISDN - Integrated Services Digital Network.  A communitek hopefully coming
soon to a house near you, basically it will greatly expand the potential
for information coming into your house, such as having 700 cable TV
channels, interactive realtime video-phones, and far off in the future
possible even realtime networked interactive 3d virtual reality.

Kapor, Mitch - One of EFF's founders (along with John Perry Barlow). He
started the Lotus software company and built it into one of the top 5
software companies in the world, then left to start the EFF. In addition
to working at the top of EFF ladder, he frequently writes stories for
magazines and newspapers, interviews on the TV and is often called to
testify before congressional hearings.

Knowbot - provides a uniform user interface to heterogeneous remote
information services. A predecesor to the Intelligent Agent.

Legion of Doom - (LoD). A legendary group of hackers from the computer
underground. When they disbanded, some members went on to form a computer
security firm (ComSec), Loyd Blankenship wrote GURPS Cyberpunk for Steve
Jackson Games and some ended up in jail from Operation Sundevil.

Matrix - Term coined by William Gibson that refers to the consensual
hallucination of cyberspace.

Meme - An "agent of communicative resonance," or more simply, "an
information virus."  Memetics is the study and theories behind the root
structures of information itself.

MindVox - A virtual community in cyberspace, also a BBS connected to the
Internet.  A nexus of the computer underground and cyberpunk and virtual
reality began by Phantom Access Technologies, former members of the Legion
of Doom. See also the WELL.

Mirrorshades - A very important collection of cyberpunk fiction by various
authors, most of whom are labeled as the mirrorshades group. This book is
edited by Bruce Sterling and should be available in most bookstores.

Mirrorshades Group - Original collection of cyberpunk authors which
includes William Gibson, Bruce Sterling, Tom Maddox, Lewis Shiner, John
Shirley, SF Eye magazine editor Steve Brown, Rudy Rucker, Pat Cadigan, and
others.

Mondo 2000 - Very popular cyberpunk and new edge magazine. Recently
challenged by a new magazine, WIRED.

MUD - Multi-User Domain, Multi-User Dungeon, or Multi-User Dimension. MUDs
are multi-user role-playing-games of sorts that exist on the Internet for
entertainment purposes. MUDs are essentially text-based virtual worlds
which players (participants) may explore, change, or add on to. In most
cases, the MUD is actually a "game" with scores, player attributes,
levels, etc., but some MUDs are with more social goals in mind. MUDs tend
to be based around different science fiction genres such as fantasy,
space, or even cyberpunk.
More recently MUDs have         SIDEBAR - MU*'s have a somewhat unfortunate
developed new uses. Research,   SIDEBAR - of being addicting. I attribute
conferencing, and more          SIDEBAR - this to the strong feeling of
academic MUDs are popping       SIDEBAR - community one gets from mudding.
up like wildflowers these       SIDEBAR - Students have been known to drop
days and indicate a possible    SIDEBAR - out of school just to MUD. Others
trend in the Internet, that     SIDEBAR - have fallen in love over a mu*
being integration of services.  SIDEBAR - only to later realize the other
                                SIDEBAR - player doesn't feel the same.
Nanotechnology - the science    SIDEBAR - I recommend going cold turkey as
of "micro-machines". Small      SIDEBAR - the only solution to the MUDding
gears or other machines seen    SIDEBAR - addiction. =)
only by a microscope, that
can be used in areas such as medicine and health, art, and other
technologies.

Net - A computer network. Often used to mean the Internet when referred to
as "the net".

Netrip - Many similarities exist in some people's minds between
psychedelic drugs and the net, and a netrip is the state of literally
getting "high" off the net, accompanied by distortions in space and time,
a gnowledge of the net itself, an intense desire to communicate your
subconscious to the rest of the net, etc.

New Edge - Fringe culture and fringe science, mostly techno-oriented, and
very popular in Southern California. Mondo 2000 is a magazine devoted to
the new edge.

Nexus - The dictionary defines a "nexus" as a "a connection, tie, or link
between individuals of a group, members of a series, etc." When applied to
virtual cultures and the networked humans which comprise them, a NEXUS is
basically a domicile/workspace/cultural-center formed in real-life by
people who have met and established relationships over the Net.  They
purchase and secure group Internet access, and thus control their own
node, living in close proximity, since creativity blossoms in people when
surrounded with creativity; since similar approaches to work and life can
re-inforce each other.  We have seen this happen on the Net; the NEXUS
community intends to manifest it in reality, to integrate it into our
lifestyle.

Nootropics - A new science revolving around drugs used to increase
intelligence, aid in memory, enhance brain activity, etc. Touted as a fad
by some, others claim that use of nootropics actually work.  See also
SmartDrinks.

Operation Sundevil - Secret Service operation begun in 1990 intended to
destroy the computer underground by confiscating BBSes and detaining
hackers.

Paste Bomb - Sometimes a litteral core dump. Via the Mac's Cut and Paste
capability, take random bits of data from one's hard drive and paste it
into an online conversation, email, mud, whatever.  Eris Lives. Sci-fi
author Bruce Sterling is a notorious paste bomber. Get in the habit

Phrack - An important magazine existing only in cyberspace, of interest to
the computer underground. It's founder, Craig Neidorf, now works for the
Electronic Frontier Foundation.

Phreaker - Hacking the phone system. Usually meaning to get phone calls
for free, whether by boxing or calling card fraud. Individual phreakers
are called phreaks.

Pirate - One who copies software illegally. Commonly associated with the
computer underground.  Although commonplace, pirates are looked down upon
as with codez d00dz . (sidebar SPA and the big corporation pirates)

Post-industrial - The state of the world, including megacorp zaibatsus, an
evolving infonomics, etc.

Post-modern - Literary, artistic, cultural, and philosophical movement
revolving around the post-industrial world in which we live, and the
unique aspects of the trends of modern society.

Raves - A 'dying' subculture revolving around all-night dance parties.
Typically, the parties are generally illegal and thus a complex process is
involved to find out where they are located. Rave music is generally
techno or house , the parties usually include 1 or more DJs. Also present
in many cases are "chill out rooms" which feature more ambient music.
Lasers, blaring music, cyberdelic images, SmartDrinks and drugs most often
MDMA {X, XTC, Ecstasy, E}, LSD {acid}, ketamine, or nootropics) are all
general contributors to the rave experience.  Raves are usually held in
warehouses, and last until the next morning. Another large part of rave
culture is the flyers - used to find out where your next  party will be.
Raves are meant to be very happy events, everyone ideally should be open
and free, laying aggressions and inhibitions aside for the night. Some
have likened the rave experience to "a weekly roving techno-woodstock for
the 90's."  Rave fashion includes over-sized baggy t-shirts and pants,
hooded sweat-shirts, ski caps, and usually bright colors, as well as
accessories such as whistles, Cat In The Hat hats, "doctor" masks,
VapoRub, etc. Many factors have led to an often heard questions these
days, "where have all the ravers gone?" (one answer is... they've gone Retro)

RTFM - Read The Fucking Manual. An abbreviation used when clueless 
questions are asked about subjects that are answered in the manual or FAQ.

Shaman - An overused word that in ancient and modern cultures implies one
who is a wise medicine man or healer, with a keen understanding of the
ways of things. Used increasingly in modern culture, especially in
conjunction with techno-paganism.

Slipstream - Term used to denote cyberpunk fiction, particularly pre-1984
fictional works that have been influential to the mirrorshades group or
that closely resemble cyberpunk, but are sometimes outside of the sf
genre. An example would be William S. Burroughs.

SmartDrugs - nootropics.

SmartDrinks - Similar to SmartDrugs,
 or nootropics, the intent of  these
substances, loaded with vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and other healthy
substances, is to aid in brain functioning. Smart Drinks are most often
consumed at raves, thus, the purpose of some smart drinks is to "energize"
the drinker, not to make them smarter.

Sprawl - Word used by William Gibson to mean large mega-cities, and places
where different cities collide. Southern California and New York City
might be early examples of the sprawl. This word is used often in modern
times as "urban sprawl".

Steve Jackson Games - RPG manufacturers that have played a key role in the
evolution of cyberpunk and the computer underground. Operators of the
Illuminati BBS and makers of GURPS Cyberpunk, an RPG guide written by Loyd
Blankenship, a member of the Legion of Doom.

Sterling, Bruce - considered by most to be the "co-founder" of cyberpunk
along with William Gibson. He is the editor of "Mirrorshades: A cyberpunk
anthology," which is considered the quintessential collection of cyberpunk
works by the mirrorshades group. Some of his other works include "Islands
in the Net", "Schismatrix", "Involution Ocean", "The Artificial Kid", "The
Difference Engine" which he co-authored with Gibson and "The Hacker
Crackdown" a non-fiction account of the computer underground and Operation
Sundevil, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Phrack, the Legion
of Doom, Steve Jackson Games, etc. Sterling has also been a vocal member
of the net. Keep your eyes open, you never know where he will surface next.

Social Engineering - Technique by which hackers or crackers acquire
information, such as names and passwords.  Essentially a modern-day con,
often conducted via phone conversations, such as portraying oneself as a
telco employee.

TBT - Talking by Typing.

Techno- - prefix similar to cyber-, referring to anything which has its
roots in current or futuristic technology.

Techno - type of music made almost entirely with the help of computers,
revolving around a fast-paced drum beat (as high as 160 BPM), sampling,
and synthesizers.

Technoculture - The idea of a culture with a strong foundation rooted  in
technology. Often used loosely in association with cyberculture and new edge.

Techno-paganism - Literally the worshipping of technology. Many people
*believe* that, for example, the net has some magic or is a sentient
entity in itself, or that technology can be an agent of evolution.
(sidebar Aleph spew)

Teledildonics - Virtual sex in a virtual environment. Term often used by
the new edge community. (sidebar: from new CD to magazine to etc)

Toasternet - Putting together a LAN, WAN or Internet hook up with the
cheapest of technology. Read up on Toasternets on the Wells Gopher.

Usenet - A collection of "newsgroups" on the Internet, in which Internet
users may post or read messages on almost any subject imaginable. The
topics of discussion are divided up into the individual newsgroups, which
total about 2000 on average. Usenet is divided into various large
sections, including the 'alt'ernative newsgroups, the 'comp'uter
newsgroups, the 'sci'ence newsgroups and the 'talk' newsgroups, among
others. Some groups are moderated, while most remain completely
uncensored. Usenet is often referred to as Abusenet for its all-too
familiar flames and appearance of perpetual chaos.

Virtual Community - any group or gathering that exists in cyberspace. This
could be a BBS, a hacking group, a net, or even a zaibatsu.

Virtual Culture - the collection of virtual communities, and the cultural
aspects unique to those communities.

Virtual Reality - a consentual hallucination of a world existing only in
cyberspace.  Modern day virtual reality uses helmets, gloves, and body
suits to create such a world, which is first created on a computer and
connected to the vr devices. A goal of some virtual reality researchers is
to generate a completely alternate reality. Research in vr includes
networking people, so spatial limitations are meaningless. The
possibilities of vr-generated environments are as limitless as the
imagination.

Virtual World - a world existing in cyberspace created and used with
virtual reality technologies.

WELL - The Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link. An important gridpoint in the
matrix, a virtual community in cyberspace, also a BBS connected to the
Internet. A group concerned mostly with cyberpunk, virtual reality,
nootropics, and other aspects of the new edge. Many celebreties have an
account on the Well.

WIRED - A new magazine devoted to exploring virtualspace and new
technologies. Wired is not as new edge as Mondo 2000 and seemingly gives
off a more corporate news oriented format. However, it is a refreshing
view and perhaps infonomics first steps into the public realm. (The TIME
magazine of virtual culture.)

Wirehead - a hardware hacker.

Zaibatsu - Japanese term used a lot by William Gibson that means a large
mega-corporation, such as Sony for example.


 ______   _____    __   __   ______    
/\  ___\ /\  __ \ /\ "-.\ \ /\__  _\  
\ \ \____\ \ \/\ \\ \ \-.  \\/_/\ \/  __
 \ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_\\"\_\  \ \_\ /\_\
  \/_____/ \/____ / \/_/ \/_/   \/_/ \/_/  In Part 2 of 5
                                           copyright 1994 John Frost


How To Get Into College
     by
Ian Osmond (AKA Xiphias Gladius, Esq.)

Getting into college these days is a competitive business.
Luckily, you're competing against people who have no clue
what they are doing.  Unluckily, neither do you.  So, with
the clue or two you may glean from this manuscript, you will
be ahead of the game.

     Colleges look at the following five things, which will
be dealt with in this paper in order of importance:
     A. Transcript
     B. SAT/ACT scores
     C. Teacher recommendations
     D. Essays
     E. Resume - a list of all the stuff you've done besides
          school

Section 1 - Transcript

     For those of you who don't recognize the term, this is
the official copy of your grades in High School.  "What?" you
cry?  " thought those were practice grades!"  Never fear!
Your problem can be solved simply with a bobby pin, some
white-out and a ball-point pen!

     The locks on school file cabinets are rather pitiful.
Frankly, I've never successfully picked one, but I am a klutz
anyway, and need a professional lock-gun to pick my teeth.
Nonetheless, once you have your official transcript in your
sweaty little hands, your work is nearly done.

     My High School makes it easy.  Each year's grade record
is printed on a separate standard oversize mailing label.
The final GPA and class rank are printed on a standard normal
mailing label.  The printing is done with a nine-pin dot-
matrix printer on draft quality.  A student from Arlington
High merely needs to procure five mailing labels, re-print
his/her transcript, with the grades s/he INTENDED to get, re-
calculate and print his/her GPA, and put down a new,
reasonable, class rank.

Section 2 - SAT/ACT Scores

     The Scholastic Aptitude Test and the American College
Test are the two standard tests requested by colleges.  YOU
NEED TAKE ONLY ONE OF THESE!  Of the two, the ACT provides
the more accurate indicator of probable performance in
college, as it tests reading, math, deductive reasoning, and
science ability.  NOBODY in the Northeast takes the ACT.

     A really good score on the SAT is about 1100 - 1200, and
there are three ways to do this.  The first, and most highly
recommended, is to be a genius.  Failing that, take a lot of
expensive SAT preparatory courses.  The third method requires
some work.

     First, practice your guidance counselor's signature.
Second, steal one piece of his/her stationery.  Sign up to
take the SAT somewhere other than your school.  Bribe a local
genius to take the test for you.  Type a description of the
genius on the stationary, saying that the person of that
description is you, and sign it WITH THE GUIDANCE COUNSELOR'S
NAME.  This method has several advantages.  You get a better
score on the SAT, the genius gets extra pocket money and a
chance to practice taking the test, and, you don't have to
wake up early on a Saturday.


     Section 3 - Teacher Recommendations

     If no teacher really likes you a lot, try bribery, or
blackmail if you are getting short of cash.

     Section 4 - Essays

     Another cash-intensive area, there is much precedent for
bribery here, too.  Again, if you can't, merely pay someone
who can.  After all, when you get right down to it, isn't
that the basis of our economic system?  Really, that's the
foundation of Western Civilization, so how could it be wrong?

     Section 5 - Your Resume

     This section is weighted the least of the five major
areas, which is unfortunate, because, with a little work,
your resume can be spectacular!  It is worth your while to
turn in an outstanding resume, not only to get into college,
but also as practice for later life, in the business world.

     The major rule in college resume writing is: there is
nothing too insignificant, pointless, pitiful, or stupid to
put on a resume.  Hey, let's face it, colleges are pretty
much looking for length.  I'd like to give you a few examples
of things you could put on a college resume, with real-world
translations.

College                                Translation / Comments
I led an improvisational performance      I was the class
troupe that staged impromptu routines     clown.
for the amusement of my classmates
at periodic points during the year.

A home-course in hostile negotiations     I fought with my
gave me the skills necessary to enter     parents.
into contract in today's competitive
business world.
Independent research into the effects     Oh, c'mon - you can
of certain chemical substances on the     figure this one
human neurosystem.                        out!

Studied the trade of locksmithing         Hey, I really know
in order to learn a trade and become a    someone who did
more-rounded individual                   this!

Utilizing hard-to-come-by periodicals,    I collect rare
I increased my appreciation of art-       Swedish porn mags.
photography, and of the human form

Independent research into computer        Well, I was
security systems and cryptoanalysis,      arrested, but
specifically as it pertains to the        the judge really
Internet, and to the UNIX operating       liked me!
system, gave me an opportunity to meet
contacts who may be important in later
life.

My leadership position in a local         Our gang managed to
youth group taught me responsibility,     increase its turf
loyalty, and trust.  I was able to lead   six blocks last
our organization through a period of      month.
growth and expansion.

    As you can see, there is nothing which can't be phrased
in a positive manner! A few pointers on how to phrase things:
  1. Stick in the phrase "independent research" a lot.  You
     can do well with these words.
  2. Keep a thesaurus handy.  You don't want to use the exact
     same words too often.
  3. Colleges like stuff that shows leadership and maturity -
     aim for that in how you phrase stuff.
  4. Don't use profanity.
  5. Do use a spell-checker.  Nothing is more embarrassing to
     you and to the college than your claiming that you won a
     "speling bee".
  6. Get everything in BEFORE THE DEADLINE.

     I hope this paper has been useful to you, and good luck
to you as you go through the college application process.
Remember, many of the skills you will learn from this process
will be useful in later life, too!

><iphias Gladius, Esq.
OWL AND LARK QUESTIONNAIRE

Reprinted from the book 'Wide Awake at 3:00 am. By Choice or by Chance '
by Richard M. Coleman. The questionnaire was adapted from an article
entitled "A Self Assesment Questionnaire to Determine
Morningness-Eveningness in Human Circadian Rhythms" by J. A. Horne and
O. Ostberg. The original article appeared in International Journal of
Chronobiology, Vol. 4, 97-110, (London: Gordon and Breach Publishers
Ltd., 1976)

Instructions:
1. Please read each question very carefully before answering.
2. Answer ALL questions.
3. Answer questions in numerical order.
4. Each question should be answered independently of others. Do NOT go
back and check your answers.
5. All questions have a selection of answers. For each question choose
one answer only. Some questions have a scale instead of a selection of
answers. Note the time of the appropriate answer on the scale and select
the corresponding number below the scale as your answer.


Questions

1. Considering only your own "feeling best" rhythm, at what time would
you get up if you were entirely free to plan your own day?

5 am     6:30       7:45              9:45      11:00     12 pm
<--- 5 --> <---4 ---> <-------3-------> <----2---> <---1--->


2. Considering only your own "feeling best" rhythm, at what time would
you go to bed if you were entirely free to plan your evening?

8 pm    9:00       10:15               12:30 am   1:45       3 am
<---5---> <----4----> <--------3--------> <----2---><----1---->


3. If there is a time at which you have to get up in the morning, to
what extent are you dependent on being woken up by an alarm clock?

Not at all dependent   ->  4
Slightly dependent     ->  3
Fairly dependent       ->  2
Very dependent         ->  1

4. Assuming adequate enviromental conditions, how easy do you find
getting up in the mornings?

Not at all easy  -> 1
Not very easy    -> 2
Fairly easy      -> 3
Very easy        -> 4

5. How alert do you feel during the first half-hour after having woken
in the morning?

Not at all alert  -> 1
Slightly alert    -> 2
Fairly alert      -> 3
Very alert        -> 4

6. How is your appetite during the first half-hour after having woken in
the morning?

Very poor   -> 1
Fairly poor -> 2
Fairly good -> 3
Very good   -> 4

7. During the first half-hour after having woken in the morning, how
tired do you feel?

Very tired         -> 1
Fairly tired       -> 2
Fairly refreshed   -> 3
Very refreshed     -> 4

8. When you have no commitments the next day, at what time do you go to
bed compared to your usual bedtime?

Seldom or never later       -> 4
Less than one hour later    -> 3
1-2 hours later             -> 2
More than two hours later   -> 1

9. You have decided to engage in some physical excercise. A friend
suggests that you do this one hour twice a week and the best time for
him is between 7:00 - 8:00 am. Bearing in mind nothing else but your own
"feeling best" rhythm how do you think you will perform?

Would be in good form            -> 4
Would be in reasonable form      -> 3
Would find it difficult          -> 2
Would find it very difficult     -> 1

10. At what time do you feel tired and as a result in need of sleep?


8 pm    9:00       10:15                 12:45 am     2:00     3 am
<---5---> <----4----> <---------3---------> <----2--- > <---1--->

11. You wish to be at your peak performance for a test which you know is
going to be mentally exhausting and lasting for two hours? You are
entirely free to plan your day and considering only your own "feeling
best" rhythm which ONE of the four testing times would you choose?

8:00 - 10:00 am.       -> 4
11:00 am. - 1:00 pm.   -> 3
3:00 - 5:00 pm.        -> 2
7:00 - 9:00 pm.        -> 1

12. If you went to bed at 11:00 pm. at what level of tiredness would you
be?

Not at all tired  -> 0
A little tired    -> 2
Fairly tired      -> 3
Very tired        -> 5

13. For some reason you have gone to bed several hours later than usual,
but there is no need to get up at any particular time the next morning.
Which ONE of the following events are you most likely to experience?

Will wake up at usual time and will NOT fall asleep    -> 4
Will wake up at usual time and will doze thereafter    -> 3
Will wake up at usual time but will fall asleep again  -> 2
Will NOT wake up until later than usual                -> 1

14. One night you have to remain awake between 4:00 - 6:00 am. in order
to carry out a night watch. You have no commitments the next day. Which
ONE of the following alternatives will suit you best?

Would NOT go to bed until watch was over       -> 1
Would take a nap before and sleep after        -> 2
Would take a good sleep before and nap after   -> 3
Would take ALL sleep before watch              -> 4

15.You have to do two hours of hard physical work.  You are entirely
free to plan your day and considering only your own "feeling best"
rhythm which ONE of the following times would you choose?

8:00-10:00 am     -> 4
11:00am -1:00pm   -> 3
3:00-5:00pm       -> 2
7:00-9:00pm       -> 1

16.  You have decided to engage in hard physical exercise.  A friend
suggests that you do this for one hour twice a week and the best time
for him is between 10:00-11:00pm.  Bearing in mind nothing else but your
own "feeling best" rhythm how well do you think you would perform?

Would be in good form.            -> 1
Would be in reasonable form.      -> 2
Would find it difficult.          -> 3
Would find it very difficult.     -> 4

17.  Suppose that you can choose your own work hours.  Assume that you
worked a FIVE-hour day (including breaks) and that your job was
interesting and paid by results.  Which FIVE CONSECUTIVE HOURS would you
select?

12  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 12
Midnight                              Noon                             Midnight    
<-----1-----> <----5---->4<-------3--------> <----2---> <----------1---------->


18.  At what time of the day do you think that you reach your "feeling
best" peak?

12  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 12  Midnight                             Noon                             Midnight                          
<-----1-----> <---5--> <-4-> <----------3-----------> <------2------> <---1--->

19.  One hears about "morning" and "evening" types of people.  Which ONE
of these types do you consider yourself to be?

Definitely a "morning" type?                       -> 6
Rather more a "morning" than an "evening" type?    -> 4
Rather more an "evening" than a "morning" type?    -> 2
Definitely an "evening" type?                      -> 0

Scoring This Questionnaire

The scores are added together and the sum converted into a five-point
Morningness-Eveningness scale:


                        Morning-Evening Scale    Score

                        Definitely Morning Type  70-86
                        Moderately Morning Type  59-69
                        Neither Type             42-58
                        Moderately EveningType   31-41
                        Definately Evening Type  16-30


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
Used Car Checklist:
Standing Check :
1)   Mileage: 12,000 / yr normal
2)   Paint over spray:
     a)   Tailpipe-
     b)   Moldings-
     c)   Windows-
3)   Rust:
     a)   Fenders-
     b)   Doors-
     c)   Rocker Panels-
     d)   Window Moldings-
     e)   Wheel wells-
     f)   Flooring-
     g)   Bed-
4)   Body Appearance (Crash work?):
     a)   Moldings-
     b)   Bumpers-
     c)   Grille-
     d)   Vinyl Roof-
     e)   Glass-
     f)   Doors-
     g)   Tailgate-
     h)   Body Panels-
5)   Leaks (No leaks are normal other than radiator spout):
6)   Tires:
     a)   Check Air Pressure
     b)   Check Condition of spare tire.
     c)   Check for uneven wear
7)   Shock Absorbers:
     a)   Push down hard on each corner, good shocks won't allow
          more than two rebounds   
8)   Interior:
     a)   New seat covers on sagging seats?
     b)   New pedal pads and worn armrests?
     c)   Water leaks or flooding signs under floor mats?
     d)   Missing hardware (Door handles, knobs)
     e)   Lights and signal operation
     f)   All accessories (Radio, Air cond.[expensive repairs!],
          Heater) operational?
     g)   Windshield Wipers
9)   Belts and Hoses:
     a)   Wear cracks or weak spots
     b)   Check for stains on hose connections (indicates leaks)
10)  Battery:
     a)   Low electrolyte level
     b)   Corroded terminals 
     c)   Cracked case
11)  Radiator:
     a)   Corrosion or rust in the coolant
12)  Air Filter:
     a)   Dirty air filter indicates lack of maintenance


13)  Spark Plug Wires:
     a)   Cracks in wires
     b)   Burned spots or wear
14)  Oil level:
     a)   Low level indicates
          [1]  Lack of maintenance
          [2]  Excessive oil burning
          [3]  Possible leaks
     b)   If oil on dipstick is
          [1]  foamy or tan (indicating leakage of coolant into
               oil)
          [2]  Thin or smells like gasoline (leakage of fuel into
               oil)
          DON'T BUY THE VEHICLE!!
15)  Automatic Transmission:
     a)   Warm Transmission fluid should be full, cold should
          appear about 1 pint low.
     b)   Fluid should be bright, translucent red.
     c)   Brown/Black fluid (especially if smells burned) says
          transmission needs MAJOR repairs.
16)  Exhaust:  
     a)   Blue smoke indicates excessive oil usage due to major
          internal problems
     b)   Black Smoke can indicate burned valves, or carburetor
          problems (improper fuel mixture)
     c)   Check exhaust system for leaks (They are expensive to
          repair)
17)  Spark Plugs:
     a)   Good plugs have light tan or grey deposit on electrode.

If 2 or more items from 1-8 have problems, there has been poor
maintenance, reconsider selection.  9-13 indicate lack of proper
maintenance, but relatively inexpensive to repair.  If there is any
problem in 14-17 FORGET IT you have a lemon.

Road Test

1)   Engine Performance:
     a)   Good accelerator response?
     b)   Adequate power?
     c)   Smooth acceleration through gears?
2)   Brakes:
     a)   Brakes should give quick firm stops, no squealing,
          pulling or fading.
3)   Steering:
     a)   Sure control?
     b)   Binding, harshness, or looseness, or wheel shimmy is
          trouble
     c)   Noise or vibration in steering wheel means trouble
4)   Clutch:
     a)   Quick, smooth engagement in and through gears



5)   Manual Transmission:
     a)   Smooth shifting?  Easy change of gears?
     b)   Clashing, grinding, whining, or sticking in gear is
          trouble.
6)   Automatic Transmission:
     a)   Smooth rapid shifting?
     b)   No noise, hesitation, or slipping should be present
     c)   Transmission should not shift back and forth until needed
7)   Differential:
     a)   Noise or thumps?
     b)   External leakage?
8)   Driveshaft, U-Joints:
     a)   Vibration and noise can mean driveshaft problems
     b)   Clicking at low speed means worn U-Joints
9)   Suspension:
     a)   If truck bounces at low speeds has weak shock absorbers.
     b)   Clunks mean worn bushings or ball joints
10)  Frame:    
     a)   Wet tires and drive short distance.
          [1]  2 sets of treads is normal, 4 means frame is bent
               by collision damage
     b)   Also check by having someone follow to see if car appear
          to travel in straight line or crooked.
                       BODYBUILDING MYTHS 
                     -----------------------
         extract from: "GOLDS GYM book of bodybuilding"

At some point someone probably told you that working out with 
weights would make you muscle-bound or cause a woman to look like 
a man. Certainly, most good bodybuilders have been told that their 
muscles will turn to fat if they stop training.

There are six main "muscle myths" that must be exposed.  In each 
case we will discuss the myth and then reveal the truth underying 
it.  This process should dispel any remaining doubts you might 
have about becoming a body-buiding.

1.  BODYBUILDNG TRAINING WILL MAKE YOU MUSCLE-BOUND.  This is 
probably the most persistent muscle myth, and it suggests that 
working out with weights will make your body so tight and 
inflexible that you won't be able to scratch your own back or 
participate effectively in athletics.

Actually, scientists began investigating weight training and 
bodybuilding more than 30 years ago. They quickly discovered that 
weight workouts actually improve body flexibility.  Indeed, almost 
all bodybuilders  are far more flexible than the average person.  
Those who aren't have invariably been injured while 
participating in some other sport.  As an example, a shoulder 
separation incurred while playing football can easily limit 
shoulder flexibility and function.

Speaking of football, superstar Walter Payton of the Chicago Bears 
has used progressive resistance weight training to build massive 
arms and shoulders.  He can walk 50 yards on his hands, punishes 
anyone who tries to tackle him, and has never been seriously 
injured despite being near to the top of the NFL's "hit list" for 
several years.  He's flexible and then some!

2.  ALL OF YOUR MUSCLES WILL TURN TO FAT ONCE YOU STOP WORKING 
OUT.  It is physiologically impossible for muscle tissue to be 
converted to fat.  What actually happens when you suspend your 
weight workouts is that your muscles gradually atrophy, or shrink 
in size and strength.  This process takes about a year to run its 
course.

Then why are some former bodybuilders fat today?  The answer to 
this question is true for  ALL of the numerous athletes in any 
sport who have become fat after retiring from competition.  When 
you train virtually every day for several hours you regularly burn 
up relatively large quantities of calories.  As a result, you can 
consume more food than you can if you are physically inactive.  
But when you  suspend training you no longer burn up so many 
calories.  So, if you continue to eat the same amount as when you 
were working out every day, you will accumulate a caloric excess 
and gradually gain body fat.  The obvious solution to this problem 
is to decrease your caloric consumption to compensate for the 
calories you are no longer burning off in your workouts.  If you 
follow this advice, you will never grow fat after you cease heavy 
training with weights.

In actual practice, few bodybuilders ever stop training for very 
long.  As they grow older they don't train as intensely as when 
they were competing, but they still hit the gym almost every day.  
Once you have iron fever, you're usually hooked for life.

3.  BODYBUILDING WILL MAKE A WOMAN LOOK LIKE A MAN.  As noted in 
the foregoing section on men versus women, women don't secrete the 
same amounts of testosterone as do men.  Therefore, they simply 
can't develop a man's muscle mass and quality.  Additionally, a 
woman secretes large quantities of estrogen, which guarantees the 
integrity of her femininity.  Unless she makes the disastrous 
mistake of taking male hormones, no woman will look masculine as a 
result of her bodybuilding training.

4.  BODYBILDING TRAINING CAN STUNT YOUR GROWTH.  There are a 
somewhat disproportionate number of male and female competitive 
bodybuilders who are below the national average in height, leading 
some individuals to conclude that bodybuil
ding workouts can stunt 
one's growth.  Taler athletes are usually naturally selected for 
other sports in what could be called a sort of "sports Darwinism."  
Having a more compact torso and short limbs allows the bodybuilder 
to attain the proper proportions needed to win a contest.  As a 
result, bodybulding tends to naturally select short or medium-
statured men and women.

There are numerous tall bodybuilders, such as  Lou Ferrigno 
(6'5") and Dr. Lynne Pirie (5'9").   Scientists have determined 
that any type of physical activity will tend to stimulate height 
increases rather than inhibit them.  Proper diet can also result 
in height increase, and bodybuilders consistently follow health-
promoting diets.  Certainly, parents needn't worry that their sons 
and daughters will end up being short in stature simply because 
they decide to become bodybuilders.

5.  BODYBULDING TRAINING WILL WRECK YOUR BACK, KNEES, ELBOWS, AND 
OTHER JOINTS.  Such spinal or joint injuries are much more common 
in other sports than in bodybuilding.  As long as you follow the 
warm-up procedures we will outline, and maintain the correct 
biomechanical (body) positions for each exercise, you needn't fear 
damaging your joints through bodybuilding training.

6.  BODYBUILDING TRAINING CAN SLOW YOU DOWN.  As with the myth 
about becoming muscle-bound, scientists proved more than 30 years 
ago that heavy weight training improves speed rather than 
detracting from it.  Reaction time can't be improved through 
weight workouts, but a stronger muscle can contract faster and 
more strongly, thereby moving a limb more quickly.  S print speed, 
for example, is a direct function of thigh and calf strength.  In 
modern athletics, virtually all athletes include weight training 
in their overall conditioning regimes.  They certainly wouldn't do 
this if heavy weight workouts inhibited their speed, because it 
could reduce their athletic ability.
 
                               

    "Buying Your Massachusetts Automobile Insurance" has been 
prepared for you by the Massachusetts Division of Insurance as 
part of our continuing effort to inform consumers on the 
detailed and sometimes complex aspects of purchasing automobile 
insurance in the Commonwealth.  This guide outlines the basic 
automobile coverages you are required by law to purchase, as 
well as the coverages available to you on an optional basis.  
We have also included a description of the newly amended Safe 
Driver Insurance Plan - the Commonwealth's merit rating plan 
which offers premium credits to policyholders who practice safe 
driving habits.  Furthermore, this guide provides information 
on filing complaints and money-saving tips for reducing your 
premium without sacrificing insurance protection.  

    If you receive this pamphlet after you purchase your 1990 
automobile insurance and you wish to make changes in the 
coverage, limits, deductibles or discounts, contact your agent 
or company.  They can assist you.  If you are not satsified 
call us.  Our Consumer Service Section can be contacted at 
(617) 727-7189, X 300.


    As you know, the Automobile Insurance Reform Act of 1988 
succeeded in updating our no-fault system, lowered the costs of 
repairing damaged vehicles, expanded consumers' choices and 
initiated long-term, cost-saving efforts that will benefit 
consumers into the 1990s. 

The 1988 Reform Law addressed the rising costs in the system 
through both tort law changes, such as the increase in the tort 
threshold from $500 to $2000, and coverage changes, including 
the increase in Personal Injury Protection (PIP) from $2,000 to 
$8,000, and the coordination of benefits between health 
insurance and PIP coverage.  Consumers have realized reduced 
premiums from additional coverage changes and newly available 
discounts.  The Reform Law increased the standard deductible 
from $300 to $500 for both collision and comprehensive 
coverages and created an optional $100 glass deductible.  Also, 
additional rated reductions are now available for consumers 
whose vehicles are equipped with both an anti-theft device and 
an auto recovery system, and for cars equipped with air bags or 
passive restraint devices. 

A new Safe Driver Insurance Plan will mean substantially 
reduced premiums for long time good drivers.  

This year, a new Safe Driver Insurance Plan takes effect.  The 
aim of the Plan is to make the Massachusetts merit rating 
system more fair by ending the subsidization of unsafe drivers 
by good drivers.  The Plan, known as a "bonus malus" system, 
can be compared to a ladder.  The bottom of the ladder 
represents the lowest premiums and the top of the ladder 
represents the highest premiums.  Drivers will be assigned 
credits and surcharges that are a percentage of the premium for 
specific coverages.  Each year, drivers with an incident-free 
record move down one step on the ladder and earn a premium 
credit.  Drivers who have at-fault accidents or certain traffic 
violations move up the ladder a number of steps equal to the 
number of unsafe driver points assigned and will be assessed a 
surcharge for each point.  Each step up or down the ladder is 
equal to 7% of the driver's premium for liability coverage 
(bodily injury, PIP, and property damage liability) and 5% of 
the premium for collision coverage.  











                  BUYING YOUR MASSACHUSETTS 

                      AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE

                              1990









                       MICHAEL S. DUKAKIS
                   Governor of Massachusetts


                       TIMOTHY H. GAILEY
                   Commissioner of Insurance



                 Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
                     Division of Insurance


CONTENTS

1. COMPULSORY COVERAGES
       Part  1:  Bodily Injury to Others..................
       Part  2:  Personal Injury Protection...............
       Part  3:  Bodily Injury Caused by an 
                 Uninsured Auto...........................
       Part  4:  Damage to Someone Else's Property........
2. OPTIONAL COVERAGES
       Part  5:  Optional Bodily Injury to Others.........
       Part  6:  Medical Payments.........................
       Part  7:  Collision................................
       Part  8:  Limited Collision........................
       Part  9:  Comprehensive............................
       Part 10:  Substitute Transportation................
       Part 11:  Towing and Labor.........................
       Part 12:  Bodily Injury Caused by an 
                 Underinsured Auto........................
3. SAVING MONEY...........................................
4. 1990 SAFE DRIVER INSURANCE PLAN........................
5. FILING A COMPLAINT.....................................



                     FROM THE COMMISSIONER 

       "Buying Your Massachusetts Automobile Insurance" has 
been prepared for you by the Massachusetts Division of 
Insurance.  This guide contains a description of the basic 
coverages you are required by law to purchase, as well as the 
coverages available to you on an optional basis.  We have also 
included information on filing complaints and money-saving tips 
for reducing your premium without sacrificing insurance 
protection.
       Many motorists pay a higher premium than they should 
because they choose coverages that do not suit their needs.  
The most common and costly mistake consumers make when buying 
automobile insurance is to renew their policy without assessing 
how their individual insurance needs might have changed.  
Instead, before you renew your policy, reevaluate your 
insurance choices and your eligibility for the many discount 
opportunities.  Also, buy only the coverage you need and select 
deductibles you can afford. 
       The Safe Driver Insurance Plan (SDIP), which offers 
premium credits to motorists who practice safe driving habits, 
has been significantly changed for 1990.  Although automobile 
insurance will always be expensive in an urban, densely 
populated state like Massachusetts, you can reduce the cost of 
your premium an average of $140 by driving safely and 
maintaining an incident-free driving record.  Although the Plan 
is complex, I urge you to read Part 4 of this guide carefully 
for information on the Plan's many new improvements. 
       Please keep in mind that this guide is not meant to be a 
substitute for the Massachusetts Automobile Insurance Policy.  
Always refer to your Policy for the exact terms and conditions 
of your automobile insurance.  If you receive this guide after 
you have renewed your policy for 1990, and you wish to make 
changes in your coverage, limits, deductibles or discounts, 
contact your agent or company.  They can assist you in making 
the necessary changes.  If you need further information on 
automobile insurance, contact the Division of Insurance at 280 
Friend Street, Boston, MA 02114 (617) 727-7189 or 436 Dwight 
Street, Room 338, Springfield, MA 01103, (413) 784-1190.  
       


                               Timothy H. Gailey
                               Commissioner of Insurance



                     COMPULSORY COVERAGES

       Since 1927, under Massachusetts insurance law, motorists 
have been required to purchase compulsory motor vehicle 
liability insurance.  All registered motor vehicles in the 
Commonwealth must be insured under Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the 
Massachusetts Automobile Insurance Policy.  When you buy this 
insurance, you receive financial protection in case you become 
involved in an accident.  
       Of course, not all insurance-buying decisions are simple 
or clear-cut, because you cannot predict the future.  When in 
doubt, remember that it is more important to have insurance 
against large losses which could threaten your standard of 
living than smaller losses that you can afford to pay yourself. 

Compulsory Coverages
       Part 1: BODILY INJURY TO OTHERS will pay for the damages 
to anyone injured or killed by your auto in Massachusetts up to 
a limit of $10,000 per person and $20,000 per accident.
       Part 1 applies whether your auto is being driven by you 
or by someone else with your permission.  However, this 
coverage never covers injuries to the driver of your auto or to 
guests in your auto.
       Limits higher than $10,000 per person and $20,000 per 
accident and coverage for injuries incurred by guest occupants 
of your auto and for out-of-state accidents may be purchased 
under Part 5.  

       Part 2: PERSONAL INJURY PROTECTION (PIP), provides 
payment of up to $8,000 to you, anyone driving your auto with 
your consent, anyone living in your household, passengers in 
your auto and pedestrians struck by your auto, for expenses 
incurred as the result of an accident, without regard to 
fault.  PIP pays for medical expenses, replacement services and 
75% of any lost wages.  
       If you already have good health insurance and disability 
health plans - provided by your employer, for example - you 
should consider taking a deductible and excluding yourself and 
the members of your household from this coverage.  However, 
remember that even with a comprehensive health insurance plan, 
you would not be provided with coverage for lost wages and 
replacement services, unless your employer offers a wage 
continuation program.          



       Even with a large deductible for you and members of your 
household, guests in your automobile and pedestrians are still 
fully covered.

       Part 3: BODILY INJURY CAUSED BY AN UNINSURED AUTO 
protects you, members of your household, and guests in your 
automobile against losses caused by an uninsured automobile, or 
from a hit-and-run accident, unless the household member or 
guest is protected by their own or another auto insurance 
policy.  In addition, this coverage protects you and members of 
your household as pedestrians against injuries caused by an 
uninsured auto or a hit-and-run driver.  
       Compulsory uninsured automobile coverage requires a 
minimum limit of $10,000 per person and $20,000 per accident.  
Increasing this coverage makes good sense for most people, 
especially for persons who travel outside of Massachusetts, as 
compulsory auto insurance is not mandatory in all states. 
       Please keep in mind that you can purchase Part 3 
coverage with limits that are lower than but not higher than 
the limits you purchase for Part 5.  It is recommended that you 
purchase this coverage in limits equal to the limits you 
purchase under Part 5.
       Part 4: DAMAGE TO SOMEONE ELSE'S PROPERTY pays for 
property damage and for costs resulting from the loss of the 
use of property damaged from an accident caused by you, a 
household member or anyone using your auto with permission.  
This Part never covers damage to your automobile or property.  
       The minimum amount required is $5000.  However, you 
should consider purchasing this insurance with higher limits.  
Today's new car and repair prices being what they are, a limit 
of $25,000 is a good choice for many people.  




                      OPTIONAL COVERAGES

       There are eight other coverages available to you in 
addition to the compulsory insurance, and in general it is up 
to you whether you purchase them or not.  These optional 
coverages provide additional protection against financial loss 
resulting from an automobile accident.  If you have borrowed 
money to purchase your automobile, your lender may legally 
require you to carry the optional coverages, Collision (Part 7) 
and Comprehensive (Part 9).
.  Your insurance company may refuse to issue you some optional 
coverages because of certain prior driving violations or 
insurance-related crimes.  

Optional Coverages
       Part 5: OPTIONAL BODILY INJURY TO OTHERS allows you to 
extend the protection you must purchase under Part 1, by 
offering coverage above the $10,000/$20,000 limit for injuries 
caused by you in Massachusetts, in other parts of the United 
States and in Canada.  
       Unlike the compulsory Bodily Injury insurance, Part 5 
will pay for injuries to guests of your automobile and for 
injuries to others caused by any person who is using your car 
with your consent.
       To protect your assets and future income, it makes good 
sense to buy higher limits under this Part; $100,000 per person 
and $300,000 per accident will meet most drivers needs.  Such 
additional coverage is valuable since, considering the rising 
costs of medical and hospital care, court judgments can easily 
exceed $20,000. 

       Part 6: MEDICAL PAYMENTS covers medical expenses for 
injuries resulting from any accident involving you, any 
household member and any passenger, once the limits provided 
under Part 2, Personal Injury Protection have been exhausted.  
It does not cover lost wages.  Drivers who have comprehensive 
health insurance plans may not need the extra coverage provided 
under Part 6.  
       You should, however, think about buying this Part if you 
and your household members do not already have adequate health 
insurance or if you want this protection for passengers in your 
automobile.

       Part 7: COLLISION insurance pays for damage to your 
automobile caused by a collision regardless of fault.  The cost 
of collision protection varies with the model and year of your 
automobile, where it is garaged and the operator 
classification.  Because it pays for damages regardless of 
fault, this Part is expensive to purchase.  
       Unfortunately, there is no good rule-of-thumb to use 
when purchasing Collision coverage.  If your automobile is 
financed, your lender may require you to carry this Part on 
your policy.  However, if you own your automobile outright, 
your decision to purchase Collision should depend on whether or 
not you can afford to replace your automobile without help from 
your insurance company.



       A deductible is the portion of each claim you agree not 
to be covered for.  For example, if you purchase Collision with 
the standard $500 deductible and you suffer a loss of $700, you 
will collect $200 from your insurance company.  If a loss of 
less than $500 occurs, you are responsible for the entire 
amount.  Collision protection can be purchased at a much lower 
price when you purchase a deductible higher than the standard 
$500 deductible.  Choose the larger deductible if you can 
afford to pay a larger loss out of your own pocket.  You also 
have the option to purchase the more expensive $300 
deductible.  The choice is not an easy one, so take the time to 
evaluate your financial circumstances when purchasing this and 
any other available deductible. 
       Your company may require a $500 Collision or Limited 
Collision deductible if you have had a major at-fault accident 
within the previous three years. 
       WAIVER OF DEDUCTIBLE coverage may be purchased at a 
higher premium if you opt to purchase Collision coverage.  The 
Waiver of Deductible allows any deductible you choose to be 
ignored in cases of fault on the part of another identifiable 
driver.  The deductible would not be waived in a hit-and-run 
accident, even if the unidentifiable party was completely at 
fault.  
       You might choose to purchase the Waiver of Deductible 
for the benefit it offers if you are involved in an accident 
caused by an identifiable, insured driver.  While many 
policyholders are willing to pay the additional cost for the 
Waiver of Deductible's convenience, others view the benefits as 
too few to justify the extra premium.  
       NOTE:  Your failure to list a household member as an 
operator on your policy may have very serious consequences.  
Your insurer will not pay for a Collision loss for an accident 
which occurs while your auto is being operated by a household 
member who is not listed as an operator on your policy.  
Payment is withheld when the household member, if listed, would 
require the payment of additional premium on your policy 
because the household member would be classified as an 
inexperienced operator or a higher rating step would be 
assigned under the Safe Driver Insurance Plan. 

       Part 8: LIMITED COLLISION also pays for damages to your 
automobile caused by a collision, although in limited 
circumstances.  Because this coverage is not as broad as Part 
7, its cost is considerably less.
       This coverage will not pay for one-car accidents, 
accidents in which you are more than 50% at fault or for 
accidents where the owner or driver of the other vehicle cannot 


be identified.  Limited Collision will pay for most other 
accidents and offers the convenience of dealing with your own 
insurance company.   
       If you are willing to pay for the damage you might cause 
to your auto, or if the value of your auto does not justify 
purchasing full Collision coverage, then Limited Collision or 
no collision coverage is your best bet.  
       You may reduce or eliminate the $500 standard Limited 
Collision deductible for an extra premium.
       NOTE:  Your failure to list a household member as an 
operator on your policy may have very serious consequences.  
Your insurer will not pay for a Limited Collision loss for an 
accident which occurs while your auto is being operated by a 
household member who is not listed as an operator on your 
policy.  Payment is withheld when the household member, if 
listed, would require the payment of additional premium on your 
policy because the household member would be classified as an 
inexperienced operator or a higher rating step would be 
assigned under the Safe Driver Insurance Plan.

       Part 9: COMPREHENSIVE coverage will pay for losses which 
are not caused by a collision, such as fire, theft and 
vandalism losses.  In addition, this insurance will pay you up 
to $15 a day for substitute transportation until your stolen 
auto is recovered (up to a limit of $450).
       Comprehensive coverage does not insure personal 
belongings in your auto unless they have been made a permanent  
part of your automobile.  This means that clothing is never 
covered, but a C.B. radio permanently installed in the opening 
of the dash or console is.
       The standard deductible for Comprehensive coverage is 
$500, although you have the option to purchase a $300 
deductible.  As with the Collision coverage, buying back to the 
lower deductible will raise your premium cost.  Seriously 
consider choosing a larger deductible than the standard one if 
you can afford to pay a larger loss out of your own pocket.  
You should also consider installing an anti-theft device and/or 
a signal-activated vehicle recovery system.  Anti-theft 
equipment and recovery system discounts, which are discussed in 
the Saving Money Section, range from 5% to 35%.  
       You also have the option of purchasing a $100 deductible 
on glass claims.  If you take a deductible, you will reduce the 
cost of your Comprehensive coverage by  %, however if you have 
a claim for a broken windshield or other glass damage, you will 
have to pay for the first $100 of that damage.   




       Part 10: SUBSTITUTE TRANSPORTATION pays up to $15 a day 
for car rental, taxicab fares and other transportation costs 
(up to a limit of $450).
       You should carefully consider whether you need this 
coverage.  Claims for loss of use caused by another driver are 
generally payable under that driver's Damage To Someone Else's 
Property coverage (Part 4).  Comprehensive Coverage (Part 9) 
provides reimbursement for loss of use resulting from theft.  
Moreover, Substitute Transportation coverage does not pay under 
all conditions.  If your auto is being repaired or replaced 
because of damages that would be covered under Collision 
coverage (Part 7), you can collect under Part 10.  There is no 
coverage, however, if your auto is merely in the shop for 
routine repairs.
       Please note that if you are under the legal age or have 
a poor credit rating you may be unable to rent a vehicle.  
However, you do remain eligible for the reimbursement of 
transportation expenses.  

       Part 11: TOWING AND LABOR will pay up to $25 for towing 
and labor charges each time your automobile breaks down.  The 
cost of replacement parts is not covered and labor is covered 
only to get your auto going again at the place of breakdown.  
       If you belong to a motor club, you may already have 
Towing and Labor coverage - so check your club's benefits 
before purchasing Part 11. 
       Your insurance company may legally refuse to sell you 
Towing and Labor coverage. 

       Part 12: BODILY INJURY CAUSED BY AN UNDERINSURED AUTO 
will pay damages for bodily injury to people injured or killed 
as the result of certain accidents caused by someone who does 
not have enough insurance, up to the difference between the 
total amount collected from the automobile bodily injury 
liability insurance covering the owner and the operator of the 
auto and the limits you purchased for this coverage.  
       Your company will pay damages to or for you, or any 
household member, unless the household member has his or her 
own Massachusetts auto policy or is covered by a Massachusetts 
auto policy of a household member providing similar coverage 
with higher limits, if you are injured as a pedestrian or while 
occupying an auto you do not own.  It will also pay damages to 
or for anyone else occupying your auto unless that person has 
his or her own Massachusetts auto policy or is covered by a 
Massachusetts auto policy of any household member providing 
similar coverage.




Below are some examples of how this coverage works:
EXAMPLE 1 - You do not buy the Underinsured Auto coverage.  You 
are injured in an auto accident caused by the other driver who 
is legally responsible for your injuries.  Your damages total 
$20,000.  The other driver's Bodily Injury liability limit is 
$10,000.  You can collect $10,000 from the other driver's 
insurance, but you must sue the other driver to collect the 
other $10,000.  If the other driver has no assets, you could 
suffer a loss of $10,000.

EXAMPLE 2 - You purchase Underinsured Auto coverage limits of 
$20,000 per person; $40,000 per accident.  Your damages are 
$30,000.  The other driver's policy provides $10,000 of Bodily 
Injury liability insurance, which you collect from his 
company.  You can only collect an additional $10,000 from your 
company.  This is the difference between the amount collected 
from all automobile Bodily Injury liability limits and your 
Underinsured Auto limit of $20,000 for each person. 

EXAMPLE 3 - You purchase Underinsured Auto coverage limits of 
$20,000 per person; $40,000 per accident.  Your damages are 
$20,000.  The other driver's policy provides $10,000 of Bodily 
Injury liability insurance which you collect from his company.  
Your Underinsured Auto coverage will pay you $10,000 in full 
payment of your outstanding damages.  This is the difference 
between the other driver's Bodily Injury limits and your 
Underinsured Auto coverage limits. 

       Keep in mind that since all registered motor vehicles 
must have the compulsory Bodily Injury limits of $10,000 per 
person; $20,000 per accident, purchasing Underinsured Auto 
coverage limits of $10,000/$20,000 provides little or no 
coverage.  If you choose to purchase Underinsurance coverage, 
you may buy limits that are less than but not higher than the 
limits purchased under Part 5, however it is recommended that 
you buy it in limits equal to the limits you purchase under 
Part 5.  



                         SAVING MONEY

       Getting the discounts you are entitled to, paying 
attention to detail and driving conscientiously can all work to 
keep your insurance costs down.  By following the suggestions 
listed below, you will maximize the available savings.  
       
Be An Alert Shopper
       Before choosing your coverages, limits and deductibles, 
read the Massachusetts Automobile Insurance Policy carefully to 
be certain that you understand the coverages.  Assess your 
driving habits in order to determine the coverages and limits 
you need.  When filling out the application, make sure that you 
complete it accurately in order for your policy to be rated 
properly.  Finally, when you receive your Coverage Selections 
Page, do not file it away without checking to see that the 
coverages, limits, deductibles, discounts and premium are 
correct.  

Review Your Bill
       You do not leave the store without a receipt - and you 
should not buy auto insurance without an itemized bill!
       First, look at your bill to find out whether any part of 
the total cost is for service fees.  Although some agents and 
brokers charge nothing for the additional effort needed to fill 
out various forms or to bring your license plates from the 
Registry, others will charge you a fee for performing such 
services.  However, no agent or broker can charge service fees 
in connection with issuing or renewing your automobile 
insurance policy, nor are you legally bound to pay for any 
other services your agent or broker performs without your 
consent.  
       Your itemized bill should tell you whether you have been 
enrolled in a motor club.  Obviously, if you do not want to 
join a motor club or if you are already a member of a different 
motor club, you should not pay the membership dues.   If you do 
belong to a motor club, check to see if membership includes 
benefits similar to the Towing/Labor and Substitute 
Transportation coverages - there is no point in buying 
duplicate coverage.  
       Of course, the main thing your insurance bill will tell 
you is how much you owe.  According to state law, no company, 
agent or broker can ask you to pay more than 30% of your 
premium before you renew your coverage (although you may pay 
more than 30% if you wish).  However, if you have defaulted on 
a premium payment during the previous twenty-four months,
 your 
insurer can legally require payment of 100% of your premium.  



       Should you choose to pay less than your total bill, it 
is likely that you will have to pay some kind of finance 
charge.  Choose your finance plan carefully.  Commercial 
lenders and insurance premium finance agencies charge up to 18% 
interest per year on the unpaid balance.  Insurance premium 
finance agencies may also charge an additional $16 fee for 
setting up the account. 
       For many policyholders, another way of making time 
payments is to do business with an insurance company that will 
bill you in installments and charge a flat fee for each 
billing.  These charges vary from company to company and 
according to the number of installments you want to make.  In 
some instances the company's carrying charges will cost less 
than other financing arrangements.  

Discount Opportunities
       Be particularly careful to answer those application 
questions relating to the following five discounts, which can 
cut your insurance costs considerably if you qualify for them.  
       * Low Mileage Discount -  If you drive 5,000 or fewer 
miles per year, you are eligible for the maximum 10% discount.  
If you drive between 5,001 and 7,500 miles per year, you are 
eligible for a 5% discount. The discount applies to all 
coverages except Comprehensive, Substitute Transportation and 
Towing and Labor, and applies to the rate for each insured car 
as otherwise determined by territory, driver class, vehicle 
model year and symbol, prior to the application of SDIP 
surcharges or credits. 
       * Senior Citizen Discount - Drivers 65 years or older 
who are principal operators of their cars receive a 25% 
reduction on all their auto coverages, provided there is no 
inexperienced driver (one with less than six years of driving 
experience) listed on their policies.  Cars used for business 
are not eligible.  The 25% discount does not apply to SDIP 
Surcharge Points. 
       * Public Transportation Discount - Choosing to take 
public transportation instead of using your automobile can save 
you 10% on your property damage liability and collision 
coverages.  The maximum discount is $75.  To obtain this 
discount, you must show evidence of purchase of 11 months of 
commuter passes or tickets from a qualified transit system.
       * Anti-Theft and Recovery System Discounts- 
Policyholders who install certain kinds of anti-theft devices 
are eligible for a 5%, 15%, or 20% discount on Comprehensive 
coverages.  The installation of a signal-activated vehicle 
recovery system, in combination with an approved anti-theft 
device, can qualify you for a savings between 25%-35%.  The 
size of the discount varies, depending on the kind of 
anti-theft device, and whether it is combined with a vehicle 
recovery system.  



       You should seriously consider buying and using some kind 
of anti-theft device and/or vehicle recovery system.  Before 
you choose a particular brand or model, check with your agent, 
broker or company representative about the discount.  A quick 
check before you buy can help you avoid an expensive 
misunderstanding later.  
       * Multi-Vehicle Discount - Individuals and married 
couples who own more than one car and insure them for Collision 
or Limited Collision coverage with the same company can get a 
5% discount on these coverages.  This discount is available 
only to experienced drivers. 

       Inexperienced drivers can realize a 10% savings on three 
of the four compulsory coverages and on optional liability and 
collision coverages, if they complete an approved 
driver-training course.  The savings is calculated into the 
rates for the particular driver classifications.
       Finally, you can affect the cost of your policy by how 
you and the other operators of your auto drive.  You will 
receive Credit Points on your policy if you and the other 
operators maintain good driving records.  More detailed 
information about the Safe Driver Insurance Plan can be found 
in Part 4 of this guide. 
       


              THE 1990 SAFE DRIVER INSURANCE PLAN

       If you and the other drivers listed on your policy have 
incident-free driving history records, then your insurance 
premium for Bodily Injury to Others (Part l), Personal Injury 
Protection (Part 2), Damage to Someone Else's Property (Part 4) 
and Collision (Part 7) coverages will be reduced by the 
application of Credit Points, helping to lower your total 
automobile insurance bill.  If you or any other driver listed 
on your policy caused an accident or violated any surchargeable 
motor vehicle traffic law, your insurance premium for Parts 1, 
2, 4, and 7 will increase due to the application of Surcharge 
Points.
       The 1990 Safe Driver Insurance Plan 211 CMR 125.00 is 
published in accordance with the authority granted to the 
Commissioner of Insurance under Massachusetts General Laws 
Chapter 175 Section 113B.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 1990 SAFE DRIVER INSURANCE PLAN
       * All operators on a policy will be assigned an SDIP
       Step. 
       * Six years of driving history will be used to rate your 
       policy. 
       * An SDIP Step is determined by adding Surcharge Points
       for surchargeable incidents within the policy Experience 
       Period to a starting step value of 15 and subtracting 
       Credit Points for each year of incident-free driving 
       within the policy Experience Period for which the 
       operator was licensed to drive in Massachusetts. 
       * Operators will receive one Credit Point for each year
       of incident-free driving for which they were licensed to 
       drive in Massachusetts.
       * Surcharge Points for Surchargeable Incidents have 
       increased.
       * Aging of incidents has been eliminated.

SAFE DRIVER INSURANCE PLAN (SDIP) STEPS
       The 1990 Safe Driver Insurance Plan assigns an SDIP Step 
to each operator listed on a policy.  For policy year 1990 the 
SDIP Step range is from 09 to 35.  SDIP Step 09 is the Best 
Credit Step for 1990.
       All operators enter the step system at Step 15, the 
neutral step - no increase or decrease in automobile insurance 
premium.  Each operator's SDIP Step is computed by adding to 
the starting step value of 15, Surcharge Points for 
surchargeable incidents within the policy Experience Period, 
and then subtracting Credit Points earned by the operator for 
each incident-free year within the policy Experience Period or 
special Credit Points for the Clean Slate Rule.



       This equation will help you determine your operator SDIP 
Step:
                     STARTING STEP  15
                   + SURCHARGE POINTS
                   - CREDIT POINTS
                   ----------------------
                   = OPERATOR'S SDIP STEP

EXPERIENCE PERIOD
       The Experience Period of a 1990 policy is the 6 year 
period immediately preceding the policy effective date.  The 
Experience Period is expected to increase each year by 1 year 
up to 15 years.  For example, the Experience Period of a policy 
in 1991 is expected to be 7 years.

CREDIT POINTS
       One Credit Point is subtracted from the starting step of 
15 for each incident-free year of driving during the policy 
Experience Period.  An incident free year of driving is any of 
the 1-year periods immediately preceding the policy effective 
date for which the operator has been licensed to drive in 
Massachusetts and during which the operator has not had a 
surchargeable at-fault accident or motor vehicle traffic 
violation.
       EXAMPLE: If you have been licensed to drive in 
Massachusetts for 10 years, there are no surchargeable 
incidents on your driving history record and your policy 
effective date is 01/01/90, you will be placed at SDIP Step 09, 
the Best Credit, for 1990.  To compute this yourself, first 
determine either the date you obtained your Massachusetts 
driver's license or the beginning date of your policy 
Experience Period (preceding 6 years), whichever is later.  In 
this example, 01/01/84, the beginning date of the policy 
Experience Period, is later.  Next, subtract 6 Credit Points - 
1 point for each incident-free year within the Experience 
Period - from the neutral step 15.  The resulting number is 
your operator SDIP Step.

       STARTING STEP       01/01/84          15
       CREDIT POINTS                       - 06
                                            -----
       OPERATOR SDIP STEP                  = 09

       Operators with less than 6 years of driving experience 
will receive Credit Points for only those incident-free years 
for which they were licensed to drive in Massachusetts.  
       Operators licensed to drive in Massachusetts for less 
than 1 year will be placed at SDIP Step 15, the neutral step.

SURCHARGEABLE INCIDENTS AND SURCHARGE POINTS
       At-Fault Accidents - If you are involved in an accident 
and you file a Collision claim, or if another person 


files a claim under Damage To Someone Else's Property, your 
insurance company must determine who was more than 50% 
at-fault.  It makes no difference whether the at-fault accident 
occurred within the Commonwealth or out-of-state.  
       There are two types of at-fault accidents.  A Minor 
At-Fault Accident is a claim payment under Damage to Someone 
Else's Property, Collision or Limited Collision coverage of 
more than $200 but not more than $1,500 and a Major At-Fault 
Accident is a claim payment under Damage to Someone Else's 
Property, Collision or Limited Collision coverage of more than 
$1,500.
       If your company finds that you were at-fault and pays a 
claim of more than $200, the at-fault accident will be added to 
your operator's driving history record and your company will 
send you a Surcharge Notice.  The Surcharge Date for an 
at-fault accident is the Date of Notice entered by your insurer 
on the Surcharge Notice form.  The accident will become part of 
your driving history record unless the company withdraws the 
Surcharge Notice or you successfully appeal the notice to the 
Board of Appeal.   

       Appealing At-Fault Accidents- Accident surcharges must 
be appealed at the time you receive the Surcharge Notice from 
your insurance company.  Detailed instructions for filing an 
appeal are on the Surcharge Notice.  The Board of Appeal on 
Motor Vehicle Liability Policies and Bonds will hold the 
hearing and will notify you, your company and the Merit Rating 
Board of its decision.  If the Board determines that you were 
not more than 50% at-fault in the accident, the Merit Rating 
Board will remove the incident from your driving history record.
       If your premium is increased due to Surcharge Points for 
an at-fault accident while your appeal is pending, you must pay 
the additional premium or your policy will be cancelled.  Your 
policy will be re-rated by your insurance company if you win 
your appeal.  
       If you have any questions concerning an appeal of a 
Surcharge Notice, contact the Board of Appeal at (617) 
727-7189, extension #223.

       Motor Vehicle Traffic Law Violations - If you are 
convicted of, or make payments for, violating certain motor 
vehicle traffic laws, or are assigned to an alcohol education 
program, the court will notify the Merit Rating Board.  The 
motor vehicle traffic law violation will be added to your 
driving history record.  The court judgment date is the 
Surcharge Date for a motor vehicle traffic law violation.
       Surcharge Points are not assigned to a non-criminal 
minor motor vehicle traffic law violation if it is the first 
motor vehicle traffic law violation in the operator's policy 


Experience Period.  No Surcharge Points are assessed for the 
incident but no Credit Points are calculated for the year in 
which the surcharge date is recorded, since the operator does 
not have an incident-free year.
       A list of all surchargeable Motor Vehicle Traffic Law 
Violations can be obtained from the Merit Rating Board.

       Out of-State Violations - Convictions of Motor Vehicle 
Traffic Laws outside the Commonwealth that are reported to the 
Registry of Motor Vehicles will be added to the operator's 
driving history record and will be subject to Surcharge Points.

       Surcharge Points - The number of Surcharge Points 
assigned to each surchargeable incident is determined by the 
type of incident:

       Minor Traffic Law Violation      2 Surcharge Points
       Minor At-Fault Accident          3 Surcharge Points
       Major At-Fault Accident          4 Surcharge Points
       Major Traffic Law Violation      5 Surcharge Points

       EXAMPLE: If you have been licensed to drive in 
Massachusetts for 8 years; you have 2 Minor Traffic Law 
Violations and 1 Minor At-Fault Accident on your driving 
history record and your policy effective date is 01/01/90, then 
your SDIP Step will be 17. 

STARTING STEP               01/01/84                         15
                         Incident Date       Surcharge Date 
SPEEDING                    12/01/84          12/22/84       00
MINOR AT-FAULT ACCIDENT     07/17/87          08/18/87       03
SPEEDING                    04/24/88          05/02/88       02
CREDIT POINTS (incident-free years 1985, 1986 and 1989)    - 03
                                                            ----
OPERATOR SDIP STEP                                         = 17

COMPREHENSIVE CLAIMS
       Your insurance company is required to notify the Merit 
Rating Board when a Comprehensive claim has been paid.  
Comprehensive claims are added to the policyholder's driving 
history record.  In future years the Comprehensive coverage on 
your private passenger automobile insurance policy may be 
subject to Surcharge Points if you submit four or more 
Comprehensive claims on or after January 1, 1984, totaling 
$2,000 or more.  
       Surcharge Points for Comprehensive claims will not be 
applied for policies effective in 1990.




ASSIGNMENT OF OPERATOR SDIP STEPS TO VEHICLES LISTED ON A POLICY
       After each operator listed on your policy is assigned an 
SDIP Step, the operators are assigned to the vehicles listed on 
the policy.  The listed operator with the highest Step is 
assigned to the vehicle with the highest combined premium for 
Parts 1, 2, 4, and 7.  For each subsequent vehicle, the listed 
operator with the next highest Step is assigned to the vehicle 
with the next highest combined premium until all the vehicles 
have been exhausted.  An operator's SDIP Step greater than SDIP 
Step 15 can not be billed on more than one policy in effect at 
the same time.  
       When there are more vehicles than operators listed on a 
policy, the excess vehicles are assigned the step of the 
operator with the lowest Step unless such operator's Step is 
above SDIP Step 15.  In such case, the excess vehicles are 
assigned SDIP Step 15. 

EXAMPLE: A policy lists four (4) vehicles and three (3) 
operators:  Operator A's SDIP Step is 20, Operator B's SDIP 
Step is 15 and Operator C's SDIP Step is 09.

       Vehicles                Operators
       1                       A. SDIP Step 20
       2                       B. SDIP Step 15
       3                       C. SDIP Step 09
       4                       C. SDIP Step 09

APPLICATION OF PREMIUM ADJUSTMENTS TO COVERAGES
       An operator's SDIP Step determines how much of an 
adjustment will be made to the policy premium.  SDIP Steps 09 
(Best Credit) to 14 are Credit Steps.  For each step below 15 
the operator's premium will be adjusted downwards.  Step 15 is 
the neutral step, which means the operator is neither in credit 
nor surcharge status, and will not receive a reduction or an 
increase in premium.  Step 16 through 35 are Surcharge Steps.  
For each step above 15 the operator's premium will be adjusted 
upwards.  If you wish to calculate the actual amount of your 
credit or surcharge, refer to "Calculation of SDIP Credits and 
Surcharges" at the end of this section.

       Liability Premium- Each step represents a 7% change in 
the following liability coverages:
       Part l:       Bodily Injury to Others
       Part 2:       Personal Injury Protection
       Part 4:       Damage to Someone Else's Property (PDL)

       Collision Premium- Each step represents a 5% change in 
Collision Coverage:
       Part 7:       Collision




       Example: If you have been licensed to drive in 
Massachusetts for six years; you have no incidents on your 
6-year driving history record; your SDIP Step is 09; and you 
have Liability and Collision coverages on your policy, then you 
will receive a 42% (7% X 6 steps) reduction on your Liability 
coverages and a 30% (5% X 6 steps) reduction on your Collision 
coverage.

CLEAN SLATE RULES
       The Safe Driver Insurance Plan provides incentives to 
operator's who have incidents on their record in the early 
years of the Experience Period, but in subsequent years have 
maintained clean driving history records.

       Transitional Clean Slate Rule- In order to ensure a fair 
and equitable transition from the 1989 Safe Driver Insurance 
Plan, the 1990 Safe Driver Insurance Plan includes a Clean 
Slate Rule.  For 1990, a 3-Year Clean Slate Rule will place an 
operator in a credit step if that operator would have been in 
credit status under the 1989 SDIP. 
       If the operator's SDIP Step is greater than 15, the 
operator's SDIP Step will be set at 14 if all of the following 
conditions for the Clean Slate Rule are met:

Three (3) Year Clean Slate Rule applies to an operator on a 
1990 policy if:
a.     the operator has a three year period of incident free 
       driving within the policy Experience Period;
b.     the three year period occurs after 1/1/87 and before 
       12/31/90;
c.     the operator had a valid Massachusetts driver license 
       for the entire three year incident-free period; and
d.     the operator's SDIP step at the end of the incident-free 
       period would be greater than 14.  Then the operator's 
       SDIP step is set to 14.
Points for surchargeable incidents within the policy Experience 
Period which have surcharge dates that are recorded after this 
3-year incident free period are added to operator SDIP Step 14. 

       Clean Slate Incentive- As an incentive to promote safe 
driving, a Five (5) Year Clean Slate provision has been added 
for policies effective after 1991.  If an operator maintains 
five consecutive years of incident-free driving within the 
policy Experience Period, and the operator's SDIP Step is 
greater than 15, then the operator's SDIP Step will be set at 
15.  The operator must have a valid Massachusetts driver's 
license for the entire five year incident free period. 
SAFE DRIVER INSURANCE PLAN (SDIP) STATEMENT
       Your insurance company is required to send you a Safe 
Driver Insurance Plan (SDIP) Statement if you or any operator 
listed on your policy are not assigned Operator Step 09, the 
Best Credit for 1990.

REFUSAL TO PAY A PREMIUM INCREASE
       If you refuse to pay your premium increase due to 
Surcharge Points, your insurance company will cancel your 
policy after sending you the Notice of Cancellation required by 
law.

RECORD ERROR OR BILLING PROBLEMS
       If you believe a billing is erroneous, you should first 
contact your insurance agent, broker or company.  Make sure you 
have all necessary information on hand, including your Coverage 
Selections Page, Safe Driver Insurance Plan (SDIP) Statement 
and copies of your billings.
       If you question the accuracy of your driving history 
record as shown on your Safe Driver Insurance Plan (SDIP) 
Statement call or write the Merit Rating Board's Insurance 
Company Services Section, 100 Nashua Street, 6th Floor, Boston, 
MA 02114, (617) 727-7017.  You must pay a billed premium while 
the matter is under investigation or your insurance company 
will cancel your policy.  If an error is discovered, it will be 
corrected and all parties will be notified in writing.  If you 
were erroneously billed your insurance company will re-rate 
your policy.

OBTAINING A COPY OF YOUR OPERATOR DRIVING HISTORY RECORD
       You may obtain a copy of your operator driving history 
record from the Merit Rating Board.  This detailed record will 
show six years of your active surchargeable incidents on file 
at the Merit Rating Board.  The cost is $3.00.  DO NOT MAIL 
CASH.  Make check or money order payable to the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts.
       No fee is required to inspect your computer record at 
the Merit Rating Board's office.  However, a prior appointment 
must be made with the Board's Insurance Company Service Section.
CALCULATION OF SDIP CREDITS AND SURCHARGES
       Your total policy credit or surcharge is determined by 
multiplying the coverage premium shown on your Coverage 
Selections Page by the factor which corresponds to your SDIP 
Step (see below), and then adding the products for all four 
coverages.  Subtract this number from your total premium if you 
are determining a credit. Add this number to your total premium 
if you are determining a surcharge. 
================================================================
                        SURCHARGE FACTORS
  Step         Part 1         Part 2         Part 4      Part 7
  Number       BI to Others    PIP           Property    Collision
                                             Damage
------         ---------       -------       --------    -------

         35    1.40            1.40          1.40        1.00
         34    1.33            1.33          1.33        0.95
         33    1.26            1.26          1.26        0.90
         32    1.19            1.19          1.19        0.85
         31    1.12            1.12          1.12        0.85
         30    1.05            1.05          1.05        0.75
         29    0.98            0.98          0.98        0.70
         28    0.91            0.91          0.91        0.65
         27    0.84            0.84          0.84        0.60
         26    0.77            0.77          0.77        0.55
         25    0.70            0.70          0.70        0.50
         24    0.63            0.63          0.63        0.45
         23    0.56            0.56          0.56        0.40
         22    0.49            0.49          0.49        0.35
         21    0.42            0.42          0.42        0.30
         20    0.35            0.35          0.35        0.25
         19    0.28            0.28          0.28        0.20
         18    0.21            0.21          0.21        0.15
         17    0.14            0.14          0.14        0.10
         16    0.07            0.07          0.07        0.05
=================================================================
                  NO CREDIT/NO SURCHARGE FACTORS
Step
Number   Part 1                Part 2        Part 4      Part 7
------         -------        ------         ------      ------
         15    0.000           0.000         0.000       0.000
=================================================================
                        SURCHARGE FACTORS
Step
Number         Part 1          Part 2        Part 4      Part 7
------         ---------       -------       ------      ------
         14    0.07            0.07          0.07        0.05
         13    0.14            0.14          0.14        0.10
         12    0.21            0.21          0.21        0.15
         11    0.28            0.28          0.28        0.20
BEST     10    0.35            0.35          0.35        0.25
CREDIT=  09    0.42            0.42          0.42        0.30
================================================================


The Division would like to thank the Merit Rating Board for its 
preparation of this section of the guide.


                       FILING A COMPLAINT

       If you believe that your insurance company has acted 
improperly in issuing, renewing or cancelling your automobile 
insurance policy, or has refused to pay all or part of a fair 
claim, or your agent, broker or company has misrepresented you, 
you have the right to file a complaint and seek a resolution.  
       The problem may be due to a simple error, and may be 
corrected with an inquiry over the telephone.  Contact your 
agent, broker or company representative.  Make sure you have all 
necessary information on hand, such as the policy or account 
number, a clear and concise description of the problem and any 
other important information.
       If you do not receive a prompt, satisfactory response, 
write a letter to the company briefly explaining your problem and 
what you expect to be done to correct it.  It may be a good idea 
to send the letter by registered mail to guarantee that the 
company receives it.  
       If you still feel you have been treated unfairly, send a 
complaint letter to the Division of Insurance, and we will assist 
you in resolving your problem.  Be sure to include your name, 
address, and phone number; the name of the agent, broker or 
insurance company; the policy number; and a brief description of 
the problem.  Make sure you keep a copy of the letter and any 
other documents you include with the letter, for your own 
records.  Keep all letters, receipts, bills and policies together 
for easy reference.  The Division of Insurance has Consumer 
Service offices located at:

       280 Friend Street      436 Dwight Street, Rm. 438
       Boston, MA 02114       Springfield, MA  01103
       (617) 727-3333         (413) 784-1190

       We will make every effort to ensure that your valid 
complaint is resolved in a satisfactory manner, by investigating 
the problem, clarifying misunderstandings and making sure you get 
clear responses to your questions.  We cannot however, guarantee 
a favorable action on your complaint if it is not supported by 
facts or the law, nor can we provide legal services that may be 
required to settle a more complicated complaint. 

                           RUBY'S PEARLS  
                           INTRODUCTION  
  
         This brief collection of short stories is electronically
    published by David and Del Freeman, with the invaluable aid of
    our Assistant Editor, Michael Hahn, for your reading pleasure. 
    The entire contents of each issue are copyrighted as a body, 
    and each individual story is independently copyrighted. Nothing 
    herein may be reproduced in forms other than electronic, nor 
    can any portion be extricated and reproduced. The whole may be 
    reproduced electronically so long as it is kept intact, and is 
    not reproduced in any form other than not-for-profit.  
         Ruby's is dedicated to fiction short stories, and may  
    frequently contain satirical spoofs, meant to amuse and  
    entertain. No offense is intended to any individual, group or
    organization, and the broad spectrum of characterization is 
    intended to be so outlandish as to obviously establish its  
    humorous intent. Any resemblance to people, places or  
    associations, living or dead, active or defunct, is purely  
    coincidental.  
        Ruby's Pearls' ISSN NO. is 1079-6673. Its Serials
    Directory International Reference Book Control No. is
    A0019982.
Isn't it annoying when boards add these damn files to the zips? Well, don't
worry. This is Guido Sanchez, from the BLaH file you are about to delete, and
I was just pointing that out. Some boards, like Gramcracker in 708/312, make
entire fucking DIRECTORIES in the zipfile. Annoying ones with lotsa alt-255s.
And that fucking annoying ţ. Is that the size of their asshole or their brain?
Well, in either case, I'd like to find out so I can skewer them using the
proper utensils. I mean, it would be a shame to want to give someone an iron
colonic, and you find out their asshole is bigger than you thought. And me
without my spoon. 
              Gweed.

Oh yah, and call Nun-Beaters Anonymous, 708,251,5094.

